---
title: '15 August 2003'
slug: 15-august-2003
date: 2003-08-15T10:59:26+08:00
draft: false
---

**Laptop**

Since upgrading to RH9, I started to experience some problems with my
laptop. Every time I switched from text mode to graphics mode it would
hang with the keyboard LEDs flashing for between 10 seconds and a
minute. This was particularly annoying, since I usually switched to a
console before suspending the machine.

After searching for any information about this problem without any luck
(I was trying to find relevant changes to the kernel or XFree86, both of
which had been upgraded).

In the end, a BIOS upgrade did the trick (which had been sitting on
Compaq\'s website for about a year). Now I can even suspend while in
graphics mode. If you have a Compaq Armada M300, the BIOS upgrade is
definitely worth it.

**PyGTK**

Put out new releases of PyGTK and PyORBit. Still haven\'t done a new
gnome-python release though. The new PyORBit release fixes a bug in the
stub generation that was showing up when used together with [Python
2.3](http://www.python.org/2.3/). After the release, I got another 2.3
related bug report which is fixed in CVS, so the next release should be
pretty solid.

The PyGTK release fixed a number of other bugs that caused errors when
compiling under Mac OS X. Unfortunately, I missed a few, so it still
requires some patches to build correctly. Next release should be build
fine though.

Given that Apple is shipping [their X
server](http://www.apple.com/macosx/x11/) with the next version of OS X,
this essentially means that PyGTK apps can run with little or no
modification under Unix, Windows and Max OS X, which should make it a
pretty attractive option to developers.

**ChangeLogs as RSS**

I wrote a short script for processing ChangeLogs into RSS format, so
that they can be read using a news aggregator such as
[Straw](http://www.nongnu.org/straw/) (plug for a cool PyGTK using app).
The script still needs a bit of work, but it can already identify
references to bugzilla bugs, and provides links to the files in Gnome\'s
LXR. A sample of the output is available here:

> <http://cvs.gnome.org/~james/rss/>

I also wrote a short XSL stylesheet to make the RSS display nicely in a
web browser. It ended up requiring a small javascript hack to work in
Mozilla, since `disable-output-escaping` does not work with its XSLT
engine ([and is not likely to get
it](http://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=98168)).
