---
title: 'linux.conf.au:2003'
slug: linuxconfau2003-3
date: 2003-01-28T02:38:07+08:00
draft: false
---

The second day of talks went well. That night we had the conference
dinner which went pretty well. We continued the tradition of auctioning
off a conference tshirt signed by all the speakers. This year\'s tshirt
was also signed by many of the people who attended the kernel summit at
[OLS](http://www.linuxsymposium.org/2002/). The winning bid was made by
the people at the [Sun](http://www.sun.com.au) table for about AU\$2100.

Everyone had a good time, although a few had too much to drink. We ended
up having to take one to hospital, where he spent a night. He was okay
in the morning though. This is something the next conf organisers should
take into account.

The talks on Saturday went pretty well (including mine). After a year of
telling me how much better PPC laptops were,
[jdub](http://www.advogato.org/person/jdub/) ended up borrowing my
laptop to give his presentation because his one had no VGA connector.

A [group shot](http://linux.conf.au/media/Speakers-together-800-501.jpg)
of all the speakers and some of the organisers was taken as well.

The closing ceremony was pretty good. We gave out bottles of \"Holy
Penguin Pee\" to all the speakers. I haven\'t been able to find a photo
of these online yet. I am pretty proud of of the labels, as I did the
layout myself.

At the closing, it was also announced that the next LCA will be held in
Adelaide, followed by Canberra in 2005.

A [Speex](http://www.speex.org/) file is available from the LCA website
containing the audio from the Q&A session. It came out at 3.4MB for
about 45 minutes. This is the format we will be encoding all the audio
in for distribution on CD.

On the Sunday I didn\'t do much, as I was exhausted. I cycled into the
city to see the Australia Day fireworks in the evening though. They were
pretty good this year. It looked like they were using about 6 zodiacs to
launch smaller fireworks, in addition to the larger barges. A great
ending to a great conference.

**Update:** a picture of the [Holy Penguin
Pee](http://www.linuxhelp.com.au/~smilie/gallery/album04/dsc_1646). If
you look at the larger version you can see a bit more of the penguin
silhouette. Another picture of [Linus getting his Holy Penguin Pee from
Tux](http://www.linuxhelp.com.au/~smilie/gallery/album04/dsc_1606).
