---
title: 'linux.conf.au:2003'
slug: linuxconfau2003-2
date: 2003-01-23T15:25:08+08:00
---

Things have been going very well so far. Registration was a breeze
(compared to last year). By having all the bags packed with the correct
tshirt size and labeled with the person\'s name, we could process each
registration in less than a minute. We had some of the speakers giving
out bags, which was nice.

The speakers dinner on Tuesday and was very successful. It was a very
relaxed atmosphere, and I got to talk to many interesting people. Some
of the other organisers managed to convinced Linus to make an appearance
at the welcome session. You can see the results
[here](http://www.everythinglinux.com.au/images/linus_and_rusty.jpg).

Tutorials on Wednesday went quite well. Went to a bit of
[malcolm](http://www.advogato.org/person/malcolm/)\'s talk in the
morning, and to Rusty\'s talk in the arvo. They were followed by the
\"Proffesional networking session\" which also ran very well. Everyone
who attended was very impressed with how things were going. Tony brought
some very nice [Little Creatures](http://www.littlecreatures.com.au/)
beers.

Thursday saw the start of the talks. Also, the [fonts
announcement](http://www.gnome.org/pr-bitstreamfonts.html) happened at
LWE, so I was finally able to talk about it `:)`. Jim has done a
wonderful job following through with this. I hope to get a copy of the
Vera fonts to display my slides with.

Has a nice lunch with
[malcolm](http://www.advogato.org/person/malcolm/),
[alan](http://www.advogato.org/person/alan/) and
[telsa](http://www.advogato.org/person/telsa/) and managed to miss the
first lot of talks afterwards.

After the talks, we had a Q&A session. On the panel we had Linus, Tridge
and Bdale. Part way through, Rusty was added as well because he was
answering so many questions. Afterwards, someone said something like
\"you know you are at a good conference when you have 3 people on the
panel and none of them are Alan\".

After that, the [Linux Australia](http://www.linux.org.au/) AGM was run.
As part of the conference registration, delegates automatically got a
membership with LA. This has very quickly brought the total number of
members up from 5 to about 405. There were nominations and elections for
seats on its board. It wasn\'t as well handled as I would have liked.
Since the nominations happened right before the voting there were many
candidates I didn\'t really know, which made it hard to make an informed
choice. Good to see some new faces on the board though. Will be
interesting to see how things shape up.
