---
title: 'Bagels'
slug: bagels
date: 2009-12-04T12:01:20+08:00
draft: false
---

I made some bagels last night.  It was my second time using the recipe,
so things went pretty well.  The boiling process gives the crust an
interesting chewy texture I haven\'t seen with other bread recipes I\'ve
tried.

I used [this recipe](http://www.reciperascal.com/bagel.html) (half
wholemeal flour, half white), but made 12 slightly larger bagels rather
than the 18 the recipe suggested.  I increased the boiling and baking
time a bit to compensate.  They weren\'t particularly difficult to make,
but the boiling process was fairly time consuming, since I could only
fit three at a time into the pot.

![Bagels](https://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/files/2009/12/bagels.jpg "Bagels"){.size-full
.wp-image-453 width="640" height="427"}

---
### Comments:
#### Mike - <time datetime="2009-12-04 12:59:02">5 Dec, 2009</time>

I found the bagels from this recipe came out really well with white
whole wheat: http://www.sourdoughhome.com/sourdoughbagels.html

Once you go sourdough, it\'s tough to go back to dry yeast!

---
#### Alessandro Delgado - <time datetime="2009-12-04 14:11:13">5 Dec, 2009</time>

Man, I SWEAR so badly I\'m not trying to be an SI-nazi or something, but
I couldn\'t really get the proportions.

What is a \"c.\"? Is it a cubic centimetre? Is a T. a big spoon, and t.
a small spoon? Are the yeast packages 2 grams packages?

I\'ve never eaten bagles (ain\'t common here in Brazil) and it seems
quite nice, I wanna cook it soon :-)

Thank you in advance \^\^

---
#### [James Henstridge](http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/) - <time datetime="2009-12-04 14:45:07">5 Dec, 2009</time>

\@Mike: I haven\'t tried any sour dough baking yet. I guess it is about
time I did so.

\@Alessandro Delgado: Those measurements would be cup, tablespoon and
teaspoon. While the recipe seems to be North American, I used the metric
versions of those measurements without much trouble (cup = 250 ml,
tablespoon = 20 ml, teaspoon = 5ml).

The packets of yeast I had were 8 grams each, but the exact amount
probably isn\'t so important: if you use less it\'ll just take longer to
rise.

---
#### [Michael Carden](http://michaelcarden.net) - <time datetime="2009-12-04 16:03:25">5 Dec, 2009</time>

James, maybe you can explain to me something I have never understood\...
Bagels. I mean, I love a bread roll and I quite like a croissant. I just
don\'t get the bagel. A torus is a fine thing as a topological
abstraction, but it\'s a right sod to use as a basis for breakfast or
lunch. If you attempt to slice it transversely and introduce a filling,
half of it falls out the hole in the middle when you eat the thing.

I must be missing something.

\--\
MC

---
#### [James Henstridge](http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/) - <time datetime="2009-12-04 17:26:42">5 Dec, 2009</time>

\@Michael Carden: I\'m not sure. It does increase the surface area
compared to a traditional bread roll, which probably makes a difference
during the boiling stage. I guess you could get the same effect from a
long thin roll, but that would likely be even less convenient.

---
#### [Aria Stewart](http://dinhe.net/~aredridel/) - <time datetime="2009-12-05 01:37:12">6 Dec, 2009</time>

Excellent!

I found (after baking bagels every week for a local store) that the
boiling time can be reduced quite a bit, often, we kettled ours only 1
minute total \-- thirty seconds on a side.

\@Mchael Carden: The hole is traditional, from street vendors carrying
bagels on a stick in a stack. It\'s possible to make a flattened ball
and boil it, and with a little practice, you can find the right cooking
times and make them work. That said, I like the traditionally sticky
toppings of cream cheese and lox, or of plain butter, and eaten
open-faced rather than sandwiched. No splat of toppings that way!

---
#### Tobias - <time datetime="2009-12-05 03:33:09">6 Dec, 2009</time>

The theory is that Jewish bakers could carry them around during shabbat
without touching them, just poking a stick through the hole. Could be a
retrofitted theory though.

---
#### [Kevin Mark](http://mysite.verizon.net/kevin.mark) - <time datetime="2009-12-08 18:04:14">2 Dec, 2009</time>

Interesting\... :) I live in the land of Bagels and Bialys. Those do not
like look quite like the ones I have eaten. Maybe you can travel to
Manhattan or Brooklyn and see how they are made in a commercial setting.
I like mine with different outer coatings: large crystal salt (aka
Kosher salt), toasted garlic bits, or the \'everything\' type (poppy
seeds, onion & garlic bits). And cream cheese & lox as fillings :)\
Debconf 2010 will present such an opportunity.

---
#### [James Henstridge](http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/) - <time datetime="2009-12-10 15:09:10">4 Dec, 2009</time>

\@Kevin Mark: I\'ll agree that the bagels I made are more uneven/rough
than the commercial variants I\'ve seen both here and in the US, but
they did end up with a similar texture to some I\'ve had (although
they\'d probably come out even better if I did the whole cool second
rise over night in the fridge thing). They tasted pretty good though :)

---
#### Alessandro Delgado - <time datetime="2009-12-11 00:10:55">5 Dec, 2009</time>

\@James

Thanks!

---
