---
title: '29 April 2005'
slug: 29-april-2005
date: 2005-04-29T10:11:38+08:00
draft: false
---

[**Ubuntu Down Under**](http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/)

I have been in Sydney for the past week for UDU, which wraps up
tomorrow. It has been great meeting up with everyone again, but has also
been exhausting.

Some of the stuff on the horizon will be quite ground breaking. For
instance, I don\'t think anyone has attempted something like [Grumpy
Groundhog](http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/GrumpyGroundhog) (which will
hopefully be very useful to both the distro team, and upstream projects
like Gnome).

**Python**

Experimented with using the new ELF visibility attribute support in GCC
4 in Python, and came up with [this
patch](http://www.jamesh.id.au/files/python-2.4.1-visibility.patch). It
restricts the list of exported symbols to just the ones marked with the
`PyAPI_FUNC` and `PyAPI_DATA` markers, which omits all the private
symbols that `/usr/bin/python` or `libpythonX.Y.so` export.

In addition, it uses \"protected\" visibility for all the exported
symbols, which means that internal calls to the public Python API don\'t
have to go through the PLT (which they do if Python is compiled as a
shared library).

In the shared `libpython` case, this speeds things up by about 5%
(according to
[pystone](http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/python/python/dist/src/Lib/test/pystone.py?view=markup)
and
[parrotbench](http://cvs.sourceforge.net/viewcvs.py/python/python/nondist/sandbox/parrotbench/)),
which isn\'t too bad for a small patch. In the static `libpython` case,
it seems to slow things down slightly \-- by \< 1% in my tests so far.

Of course, the shared `libpython` case is still slower than the static
version (which is why `/usr/bin/python` doesn\'t use a shared
`libpython` on [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/)), but it does make it
less slow than it was before `:)`

**Solaris**

[Glynn](http://www.gnome.org/~gman/blog//29042005-1): If Solaris feels
like a second class citizen, it is probably because hardly any hackers
have access to Solaris machines (the same seems to be true of
architectures other than i386). A fair number of developers would
probably be interested in fixing Solaris build failures if they knew
that they existed.

I realise that Sun doesn\'t want to provide external access to a build
machine (at least, that\'s what I was told last time I asked some
Sun/Gnome hackers), but maybe running a tinderbox style system and
publishing the build logs would help. As well as telling me if my
package is broken, it\'d give me a way to tell whether the fixes I check
in actually solve the problem.
