---
title: 'Daylight Saving in Western Australia'
slug: daylight-saving-in-western-australia
date: 2006-11-03T07:19:39+08:00
draft: false
tags: ['Ubuntu']
---

Like a few other states, Western Australia does not do daylight saving.
Recently the state parliament has been discussing a [Daylight saving
bill](http://www.parliament.wa.gov.au/parliament/bills.nsf/BillProgressPopup?openForm&ParentUNID=9A1B183144403DA54825721200088DF1).
The bill is now before the Legislative Council (the upper house). If the
bill gets passed, there will be a 3 year trial followed by a referendum
to see if we want to continue.

I hadn\'t been paying too much attention to it, and had assumed they
would be talking about starting the trial next year. But it seems
they\'re actually talking about starting it on 3rd December. So assuming
the bill gets passed, there will be less than a month til it starts.

If it does get passed, then everyone will need to get time zone data
updates for their computers (if they\'re in WA, or communicate with
people in WA). Curtains will fade! Cows will be confused! It will be
chaos!

---
### Comments:
#### Jonathon - <time datetime="2006-11-04 00:21:56">6 Nov, 2006</time>

As one who has had to deal with daylight saving time in the US, here are
my observations:\
-there are little energy savings, if any\
-altering sleep patterns has ill effects on people\
-agricultural communities hate it

If I were you, I would do a little research on the subject. If you end
up comming to the same conclusions then by all means try to prevent your
local bill from being passed.

---
####  - <time datetime="2006-11-05 10:19:12">0 Nov, 2006</time>

Nowadays people consume more energy after work than in the morning. The
savings are really dubious

---
#### [Russell Coker](http://etbe.blogspot.com) - <time datetime="2006-11-10 14:04:56">5 Nov, 2006</time>

I think it would be best to abolish time zones and use UTC for the
entire world. In Melbourne you would start work at 20:00 (in summer)
while in Amsterdam you would start work at 1:00. Then there would be no
confusion when arranging meetings and tele-conferences with people in
other countries.

---
#### s cooper - <time datetime="2006-11-11 17:56:18">6 Nov, 2006</time>

I have lived with day light savings most of my life.\
I have never had any problem with curtain fade , I think to use silly
arguments like that one makes your whole argument seem ill informed and
simply scared of change. I support both sides of the argument and can
see the pros and cons of your side of the argument. all the best

---
#### Salvatore F Guarino - <time datetime="2006-11-13 09:54:56">1 Nov, 2006</time>

It\'s really a non issue. Most arguments against it are unfounded. Lots
of people complain that they have to get up an hour earlier and so on.
If the same person had to move to Sidney or New York would they still
live by the clock in Perth? The reality is that they would adjust and
get used to it and wouldn\'t notice the change after a few days. Also
after a three year trial they might even see its benifits and vote in a
referendun in an unbiased way for or against

---
#### daisy - <time datetime="2006-11-14 12:21:20">2 Nov, 2006</time>

get over the cows! i\'ve been talking to heaps of farmers and they
don\'t have a problem with it and it doesn\'t affect the cows in any
way!

---
#### Lou De Vere - <time datetime="2006-11-15 09:52:26">3 Nov, 2006</time>

I was delighted to hear the news on the radio the other day that
daylight saving could soon (very soon!) be implemented in W.A. Two key
advantages will be the chance to enjoy longer, brighter evenings. When
you get home from work, you\'ll be able to utilise natural light for
longer and because of this, power wasted on artificial light will be
reduced. The second important issue is that we will no longer have to be
3 hours behind the majority of the population in the eastern states
during the summer. Everyone knows that the curtain fading problems, cows
being confused over milking time issues and various other hilarious
arguments are nonsense so let\'s do it!

---
#### Rebecca Hamilton - <time datetime="2006-11-15 13:13:55">3 Nov, 2006</time>

How is the last three referendums to do with daylight savings were
rejected, but this state will still go ahead with a trial of three years
before asking the people what they want?

---
####  - <time datetime="2006-11-15 15:29:07">3 Nov, 2006</time>

you are all losers

---
#### ella - <time datetime="2006-11-17 11:20:32">5 Nov, 2006</time>

it is very interesting to read your points of view. could you please
send me some information on DLS for a school debate. I am against
daylight savings in this topic,\
thank you,\
EB

---
#### Geez - <time datetime="2006-11-18 20:23:37">6 Nov, 2006</time>

This is ridiculous. I am so glad we are getting out of this backward
state asap.

Those of us who grew up in the \"eastern states\" as WA people so
annoyingly call everyone but themselves, know that daylight saving is a
great thing. This three hour difference in time is crazy.

---
#### Lavadevil - <time datetime="2006-11-22 11:28:32">3 Nov, 2006</time>

In repsonse to Geez, the three hour time difference is not crazy, it is
what you expect living on completely different sides of a massive
continent. It is basic mathematics and naive to suggest that the time
difference can be changed simply by daylight savings. At some point we
have to accept the basic nature of the world we live in which means that
with changes in longitude come time differences. Its not like states
choose to have different times on purpose!

The \"eastern states\" moniker is a good way for WA people to payback
some of the constant eastern states centric bias for everything and the
attitude that nothing exists west of the Nullarbor!

---
#### Mic - <time datetime="2006-11-22 11:42:51">3 Nov, 2006</time>

To only give 2 weeks notice shows the WA government hasn\'t done their
research. All IT companies are going to be in a mad rush to update
systems to handle WA DST. Most systems do not have any configuration to
change to DST in WA meaning major changes have to be made that only a
limited number of high level technical support people or software
developers can do. Doing this in just 2 weeks is going to leave a lot of
people with incorrect phone bills and other IT problems because many
companies won\'t be able to update their systems in time. 6 months
notice would have been more appropriate.

---
#### Dave Kennard - <time datetime="2006-11-22 17:46:01">3 Nov, 2006</time>

The windows resource kit (www.microsoft.com/windows/reskits/) has a
utility called TIMEZONE.EXE where you can setup a custom DST.

Its only for windows but will do for most folks.

---
#### Scottish_Down_Under - <time datetime="2006-11-22 18:03:38">3 Nov, 2006</time>

Ach, guys\...\
It\'s only an hour, whether it means fabulous savings in electricity,
easier communication with the rest of Oz, faded curtains or (God
forbid!) confused cows it\'s really as simple as giving everyone an
extra 60 minutes to enjoy the beach / park / beer garden after a long
day at work!\
Enjoy - you know it makes sense.\
PS Had to comment on some of the points - sorry!\
1. IT changes due to DST are bound to be minimal at best - although I do
agree that simple software like phone time programs etc that won\'t
really be updated is a tad annoying\...\
2. Time differences are dependant on longitude AND latitude - especially
with Perth\'s location in Australia.\
3. Backward State? Mineral and Oil/Gas capital of Australasia, not to
mention some of the best damn wines in the world\... (Oh, and Go
Eagles!)\
4. There must be a real lack of tolerance in the USA? A 1 hour change
has ill effects on peoples sleeping patterns? After the first day,
surely no one notices it? Hmmm\...

---
#### Sue - <time datetime="2006-11-22 18:27:44">3 Nov, 2006</time>

Hey at school i am having a debate about daylight saving and i am
against it and i cant find and info on it\
can u plz send me some arguments\
thanx

---
#### Mike - <time datetime="2006-11-23 12:29:55">4 Nov, 2006</time>

I agree with Lavadevil. It is completely logical why the south-eastern
states have daylight savings, and the northern/western states don\'t
have it.

Look at average amount of sunshine Australia gets daily -
<http://www.bom.gov.au/climate/averages/climatology/sunshine_hours/IDCJCM0013_sunshine-hours.shtml>

Sydney and Melbourne get an average of 7 HOURS per day during the summer
months, while Perth gets an average of 9 HOURS per day! It\'s obvious
why they have it, but why do we need it? How much more \"daylight
hours\" do you want?

Sometimes I feel that people don\'t think about these things too
much\... we\'ll see how the referendum goes in 3 years time after people
are sick of trying to get their kids inside and into bed when the sun is
still up outside\...

---
#### stu - <time datetime="2006-11-23 16:32:29">4 Nov, 2006</time>

the only real reason for daylight sving is to bring us in line with
other states the problem with this is that it is actually a reason for
ather sates to get rid of daylight savings

---
#### Scottish_Down_Under - <time datetime="2006-11-23 17:53:19">4 Nov, 2006</time>

Mike - come on now! It\'s not changing the \'number\' of daylight hours
we have - it\'s changing WHEN we have them\...\
Daylight from 5am to 8pm is surely more intelligent than from 4am to
7pm?\
An hours difference isn\'t going to make the sun stay out until 10pm or
11pm at night so parents \'dragging\' kids indoors is hardlt going to be
a big problem, eh?\
IT\"S AN HOUR!!! That\'s all! It brings us slightly more in line with
the main cities of Melbourne and Sydney and it means we have more time
in the evening to enjoy this beautiful State of ours\...\
It\'s in place now and in 3 years there\'s no way that a referendum will
result in it being gotten rid of\...

---
#### Rod Swift - <time datetime="2006-11-27 06:10:59">1 Nov, 2006</time>

As for \'fixing the problem\' \-- Microsoft did it days after the bill
succeeded and you can download an update to fix your computer to have
the correct DST information for the three year trial.

<http://www.microsoft.com/australia/technet/timezone/>\
and\
<http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=c6a2c8fe-abda-4051-a24f-3ec933089747&DisplayLang=en>

Enjoy.

---
####  - <time datetime="2006-11-27 14:54:12">1 Nov, 2006</time>

This web site and those who posted comments have turn my aganist
daylight savings compeltly!

---
#### RK - <time datetime="2006-11-27 15:04:53">1 Nov, 2006</time>

I think that what the point of all this if none of the pubic get there
way.Who is this excatly going benfit over all? What I have been taught
is don\'t help peolpe unless they ask for it.Majority Rules hey!

---
#### sassy - <time datetime="2006-11-27 15:11:04">1 Nov, 2006</time>

why would curtains fade?

---
#### John Tylar - <time datetime="2006-11-27 15:55:17">1 Nov, 2006</time>

They give us no time and rush it in so they can have it as long as
possible i think they should all go somewhere we they cant do this kind
of damage i refuse to go ahead with it what will they do huh nothing
they can do i am not changing my clocks

---
#### JJ - <time datetime="2006-11-27 23:59:54">1 Nov, 2006</time>

John Tylar you can keep your clocks as they are - see if anyone else
cares. I won\'t.

Mike you miss the point. People in northern countries like most of
Europe and the northern USA and Canada get over 15 hours of daylight in
summer yet they still adjust for summer time. Try going there in summer
and experience being able to sit in a beer garden in the light until 10
at night.

Why do we need more light at night? Who is it going to benefit? Everyone
who enjoys a bit of outdoor activity in the evenings that\'s who. And if
you don\'t do that sort of stuff then what does it matter? Just get over
it, it doesn\'t actually affect you. How narrow minded to say that
because you don\'t benefit nobody should. The only group who I admit
will miss out are those who like to surf or paddle on the river in the
mornings who will now have an hour less to do it before work.

And the people saying it will be hard for those with small kids are
missing something. It\'s still light now when I put my 2 young ones to
bed so they won\'t notice the difference. I will notice the difference
when they wake up with the sun as they do and I\'ve had an extra hour to
sleep in the morning.

Bring it on forever.

---
#### me - <time datetime="2006-11-28 13:45:16">2 Nov, 2006</time>

i think A three year trial will give wa a tast of daylight savings befor
they critisize it.

both sides will see all the pros and cons of daylight saving

---
#### natasha - <time datetime="2006-11-28 13:46:22">2 Nov, 2006</time>

i believe the 3 year trial is good because it will give us a feel of the
situation.

im for daylight saving because:\
save electricity,\
workers can have more time with there family and friends in the
daylight,\
school starts and finishes earlier,\
can speak to friends longer who live over the state.

---
#### [Simon Shaw](http://www.micromine.com) - <time datetime="2006-11-28 14:17:31">2 Nov, 2006</time>

The short notice given is a pain in the ass from an IT point of view.The
power savings are negative. Everyone will go home and power up their
home aircons for an hour longer.As pointed out, we already have tons of
daylight in Perth in summer, (too much if you ask me).WA does a lot of
business with Asia and South Africa, it will put us more out of synch
with them, stuff the eastern states :)Lastly, we have had a referendum
on average every 10 years on this subject, how many times do we have to
say no???

---
#### andrew.mollan - <time datetime="2006-11-29 17:42:36">3 Nov, 2006</time>

can any one send me a bit of imformation agaist day light saving

---
#### michael - <time datetime="2006-11-30 16:13:51">4 Nov, 2006</time>

Scottish\_Down\_Under said \"as simple as giving everyone an extra 60
minutes to enjoy the beach / park / beer garden after a long day at
work!\"

How many people work the number of hours they get paid for? How many
don\'t get overtime for those extra hours?

Who\'s to say the \'Norm\" will be to WORK that extra hour (paid or
otherwise) because lets face it\... its any extra hour we could all be
at work being \"productive\"\...

---
#### Scottish_Down_Under - <time datetime="2006-11-30 19:27:05">4 Nov, 2006</time>

Simon Shaw thinks we get TOO MUCH sunshine? Well, firstly moving the
clocks will sadly not change that mate, and if you really do want to
avoid sunny weather, I\'d recommend Dundee, Scotland - you\'ll love the
grey skies, dour weather and you\'ll fit in well with the locals\...

---
#### joe - <time datetime="2006-11-30 21:19:31">4 Nov, 2006</time>

andrew mollan and todd caroll i have a good idea for you both reasons
agianst day light savings are people need to get used to a different
time and differnent sleeping patternsi hope its enough need more plzz
ask

---
#### Martin - <time datetime="2006-11-30 21:23:38">4 Nov, 2006</time>

Daylight savings is a good thing. We don\'t get any more sunshine, just
get the same amount at a better time of day. I don\'t think people
understand that not that much changes. Hopefully they\'ll use their
heads and get over their fear of change.

---
#### serge - <time datetime="2006-11-30 22:36:11">4 Nov, 2006</time>

hey umm what are the good and bad things about daylight savings! you
waste time instead of saving it dont you?

\

---
#### Ariaflame - <time datetime="2006-11-30 22:38:55">4 Nov, 2006</time>

I grew up in Scotland so I have lived with Daylight Savings. I can\'t
remember loving it, but I can\'t remember hating it either. The main
problems that I have with the trial is the short notice. People plan
ahead. Sometimes months ahead. And some of the events depend on sunset
being at a particular time. Shift this and suddenly piles of already
printed publicity has to be redone. Some events become unfeasibly late
(Sunset cinema, star viewing nights, theatrical events)

Teachers are upset because for at least a week the students will be
walking home at one of the hottest times of the day.

The heat will appear to last longer into the \'night\' so more people
will have their A/C on overnight. We\'ve already had enough problems
with overuse of power in summer.

On the plus side I guess I\'d be able to walk home from work more often.
(Except that I\'ll be working from home for an unrelated reason)

I will watch the trial with interest, but am disappointed at the rushed
introduction which argues political expediencies rather than the good of
the state is the main objective.

---
#### dufus - <time datetime="2006-11-30 23:29:33">4 Nov, 2006</time>

I think DLS is just great. I mean who wouldn\'t want an extra hour every
day. Wow, just imagine, 25 hours every day to do all kinds of neat stuff
you want - surfing, sleeping, whatever.

---
#### Runamuk - <time datetime="2006-12-01 13:31:29">5 Dec, 2006</time>

I\'ve just updated all our computer systems with the new daylight
savings information. Easy as. I think daylight savings is great, means I
can actually do things after work. As for sending the kids to sleep when
it\'s still light outside, how do you think kids in places like London
deal with it then? it stays light until about 9pm or so over there in
summer. Also, people near the Artic Circle seem to be able to live with
contstant daylight in summer\...

---
#### maria - <time datetime="2006-12-01 14:43:57">5 Dec, 2006</time>

i cannot believe the crap I am reading. I grew up in Perth and did not
have daylight saving, now living in Sydney for the past 11 years have
lived with daylight saving, and to be honest cannot see what the problem
is. I used to be offended when \"eastern staters\' commented that people
from WA were backward and small minded - now I see why !! Get with the
programme - in a couple of days all you will notice is that there is
more time at the end of the day to enjoy the day - are all WA people so
opposed to moving with change ???? or just the ingrates on this site?\
Computers, cows , curtains????? doesn\'t seem to have effected the rest
of Australia.

---
#### Bill Blogs - <time datetime="2006-12-03 16:02:12">0 Dec, 2006</time>

Enjoyed reading some WAers enthusiasm and broad minded approach to DST.
WA was (is?) one of the few industrialised areas of the world not to
embrace DST. <http://www.worldtimezone.com/daylight.htm>

Having lived in various parts of the world, summer doesn\'t feel summer
without glorious long evenings and DST. In Perth people will be able to
go to the beach after school/work. =)

---
#### Bazzil - <time datetime="2006-12-03 20:35:54">0 Dec, 2006</time>

To those who post (in favour of DLS) its just an extra hour, get over
it. The same can be said by those of us against. The annoyance of having
to participate in this, in order to come in line with the \"Eastern
States\", just to gain that extra hour outways any possible benifits.

Power savings? Please, try leaving some lights off, get power saving
light bulbs, or better still use some forethought.

Need to communicate with someone not in your timezone? EXPECT it, and
plan for it. What about people who work outside ALL the time? The people
who get up when its dark, so they dont dehydrate, get skin cancer, and
generally have a crap time of it at work, because they\'re in 30-40
degree heat all day. I guess they\'ll just have to get up at what
\"was\" 2am, instead of 3am, to get their work done, without risking
skin cancer.\
I can only see White collar benefits, and minimal ones at that. And i am
white collar, I get home, Go for A Ride, A Swim, have one light on in my
house to read, and im fine with that. We have more than enough daylight,
dont like it? get up earlier yourself\... leave the rest of us alone.

---
#### mauvehaze - <time datetime="2006-12-03 22:08:57">0 Dec, 2006</time>

Now it\'s in effect just change your time zone to \"Osaka, Sapporo,
Tokyo\" and when it goes back in March change the time zone back to
Perth. I don\'t see the need to install Microsofts patch. Have they got
an \'uninstall\' the patch instructions? I can\'t see my hubby being
less tired after work to enjoy the extra hour of daylight after work. He
will still nod off wherever he sits! I really can\'t imagine him doing
more around the home, like mowing the lawn, in that time either!!!
Cheers ;-)

---
#### [Michael](http://www.pedrotski.com) - <time datetime="2006-12-04 12:27:15">1 Dec, 2006</time>

-I woke up feeling like shit. -Trading with ASIA (Was the same time zone
as us) is now harder as we are out of line them. -Daylight savings was
for farmers? Niga Pls. They should get up an hour earlier, Not the
entire state. -The only things i have heard people say is that omg 1
hour more sun after work. Ok fair enough, BUT that is all i have heard.
I mean comon. The sun fucking set just after 9. I have tea at 7/7:30, Im
not in the mood to goto the beach after that. People who work in the sun
all day, (IE brikies) Would they want to stay out for that extra time
and goto the beach of would they rather go home to their nice cold air
con\'d house?? -The sun sets at 8 in summer anyway. Most people get off
work at around about 5, So thats 3 hours to do what you want. Also kids
are sposed to goto bed at 7, Arnt they. They dont understand why they
have to goto bed so early and its daylight out side. -How is this going
to save energy? If people are driving around more after work going
places its going to use more energy correct? Also people who go home and
find out how HOT it is, Turn the Air con on, Turn on the TV. Please, If
anyone who wants daylight savings to stay, Please say somthing more than
1 extra hour to goto the beach once a month. I have about 1000 more
responses.

---
#### Scottish_Down_Under - <time datetime="2006-12-04 13:39:04">1 Dec, 2006</time>

Man, I love the controversy and more, the sad comments that this issue
has raised\...\
It\'s an hour, it\'s ONLY an hour, it\'s an hours sunlight we get at a
time that MOST of WA can enjoy it instead of at 5am\...\
It doesn\'t matter that we\'re an hour out of synch with Asia, now 9
hours out of synch with the UK or for that matter 14 - 17 hours out of
synch from the U.S. The business world copes with this quite admirably
elsewhere, I think WA can cope too.\
It\'s a trial of a time system that works for 95% of the rest of the
world, it\'s a three year trial, and it\'s in place. Accept it, move on,
and don\'t use 60 minutes of a time difference to explain how crap you
feel etc.\
It\'s not about 1 person who can\'t face going to the beach after a big
evening meal, or who thinks their kids have to be in bed by 7pm on the
dot (?!?)\
It\'s time to end this and think about something that\'s actually
important to the future of this great State like the water shortage
we\'re facing, the skilled workforce shortage in WA or the ridiculous
housing prices\... No?

---
#### Mike - <time datetime="2006-12-04 16:44:03">1 Dec, 2006</time>

Scottish\_Down\_Under said: \"Mike - come on now! It\'s not changing the
\'number\' of daylight hours we have - it\'s changing WHEN we have
them\...\"

Mate, you missed my point\... I wasn\'t saying we\'d have more
\"daylight\" hours at all. I was merely pointing out why it makes sense
for the likes of Sydney & Melbourne to have daylight savings because the
sun isn\'t up for as long as it is here.

Anyway, I agree with about the fact that it\'s pointless arguing so much
about something that\'s not really that important. Too bad the
politicians can\'t do that also and try and tackle something more
important than rushing in daylight savings at the last minute to deflect
attention from all their other screw ups\... ;)

---
#### Katarina - <time datetime="2006-12-05 19:13:32">2 Dec, 2006</time>

did daylight saving hurt your head? What was the problem? Was it that
you could not work out how to change the clock on the oven? Or possibly
that the kids have the run of the house\....what bed time but the sun is
still up?\
It is all good - I haven\'t really noticed the differance other than
after dinner I still feel like going for a walk as I feel I still have
time before it gets dark.\
I wonder though would daylight saving be better in Winter?

---
#### Justine - <time datetime="2006-12-08 11:04:27">5 Dec, 2006</time>

The argument for extra family hours is simply hogwash. Day light savings
was purely implemented for business purposes. If it was for people as a
whole then a referendum to see if we wanted a trial would have been
performed. The worst factor is a government that thinks it can do what
it likes (mind you this is the norm). I like day light savings but
unfortunately cant yes vote otherwise it will give permission for the
pollys to completely run amok.

---
#### Robyn - <time datetime="2006-12-12 01:34:53">2 Dec, 2006</time>

I Have lived in W.A. for the past 20 years but am from Sydney I am a
Grandmother of 13 and I have missed my daylight saving I Love daylight
saving No I do not get an extra hour in the day just the clock is
adjusted so instead of sleeping till 7 and wasting all that daylight
sleeping I am up at 7 (6 WST) and I love the extra daylight in the
evening.. I have 4 children which I always managed to get to sleep
during daylight savings over east, I read an article in the Sunday Times
this week that makes me wonder about people.. QUOTE.. This State
Goverment Has again shown that if something is not bolted down, it will
tax it. Not happy with high Stamp-Duty taxes and double dipping with
fuel tax, it has decided to take an hour off us and have the audcity to
call it daylight saving, I am now wathching the shirt on my
back\...UNQUOTE\
with attitudes like this what hope have we

---
#### yam - <time datetime="2006-12-19 00:52:24">2 Dec, 2006</time>

Is there any point in having DST over the entire state? I imagine that
in the tropical north of WA, there\'s very little difference in daylight
hours throughout the course of the year - compared with the more
southerly latitudes.

Wouldn\'t putting the clocks forward in the north be purely for the sake
of staying at the same time as the more populated south-west?

---
#### John - <time datetime="2006-12-22 11:35:31">5 Dec, 2006</time>

I lived in the eastern states (Sydney) for a number of years. I hated
DST there and I hate it in Perth. I particularly object to the way that
government is trying to establish DST by stealth without a referendum
BEFORE the trial (what happened to democracy? Has it all been exported
to Iraq?) after which, one can almost hear them saying in a patronising
way \"they will be used to it by then.\" However, my main reason for
posting this comment is to hopefully locate policical opposition to DST.
Can anyone help with that?

---
