---
title: 'London Airports'
slug: london-airports
date: 2006-08-11T01:52:40+08:00
draft: false
---

So the airports in the UK went crazy today after a [terror
plot](http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/4778575.stm) was uncovered. The
upshot is severe restrictions on what you can take on as hand luggage,
and a fair number of flight cancellations.

The restrictions mean you can\'t carry laptop computers on board.
Instead they want you to check them through and trust them to the
baggage handlers \...

I\'m meant to be flying back to Australia on Saturday, so we\'ll see
what happens. I\'m not particularly looking forward to getting home with
a broken laptop.

---
### Comments:
#### [Eugenia](http://www.eugenia.co.uk) - <time datetime="2006-08-11 09:17:30">5 Aug, 2006</time>

I agree. After 9/11 new restrictions were added to plane flights in US
too.

It sucks to take off your shoes each time you go through security for
example\... This didn\'t used to be a requirement.

---
#### [housetier](http://nrrd.de/) - <time datetime="2006-08-11 09:50:32">5 Aug, 2006</time>

One wonders how a \"bomb\" in the baggage area of the plane differs from
a lapbomb in the passenger area. But it is difficult to get questions
answered in these times and days of paranoia, where suspicious means
guilty.

Next thing will be banning anyone with school education from planes;
because, you know, in school they learn what you can do with hydrogen
and oxygen. Yes you make WATER, but the process can be rather explosive.

I should stop giving them ideas\...

---
#### [Mary](http://puzzling.org/) - <time datetime="2006-08-11 10:40:24">5 Aug, 2006</time>

The other problem is that a very common exclusion on travel insurance
policies is \"electronic devices are not covered if carried in a cargo
hold.\" I\'m therefore assuming that Canonical employees would be far
from the only people upset by this because suddenly a lot of people are
travelling with uninsured expensive equipment.

Is there any chance of having it shipped (flown) home somehow by a
proper freight company who know how to pack things?

---
#### [Victor Bogado](http://www.bogado.net) - <time datetime="2006-08-11 10:43:33">5 Aug, 2006</time>

Yes housetier, there are bombs that go in the baggage area, I heard that
the Israelly airports usually decompress all the baggages before
boarding. This procedure eliminates the possibility of some enviromental
triggers.

Bombs in the baggage area is even better, since you can kill without
dieing in the process. Simply board the baggages and don\'t fly, or if
the bomb is small enough you could attempt to plant it in other peoples
bags.

There is no end to this paranoia so in the meantime I would sugest James
to use a ton of bubble plastic arround his laptop\... :-P

---
#### [Mary](http://puzzling.org/) - <time datetime="2006-08-11 10:44:59">5 Aug, 2006</time>

And, for that matter, a proper freight company that will provide the
ability to insure the shipment.

---
#### Paul - <time datetime="2006-08-11 12:05:25">5 Aug, 2006</time>

One can\'t \"simply board the baggages and don\'t fly\", that hasn\'t
been possible for a long time. Don\'t board and your baggages will be
offloaded.

It doesn\'t take much imagination to think of ways a a bomb in the
baggage area may differ from one in the hand luggage.

For a start one in luggage must be pre assembled into a device. I
imagine such a device is easier to spot on xrays and the like (though
with laptops and so forth being checked into luggage there will
currently be more complex devices to hide amoung). In hand luggage
different parts of the bomb could be hidden in apparantly innocuous
components and even split between two or more people and then put
together on the plane (presumably in a toilet).

Aren\'t luggage containers on planes somewhat bomb resistant these days
too? A luggage bomb would probably need to be bigger.

It sure is a pain in the arse but I\'m not sure that \"crazy\" is the
right epithet. All things considered the response seems a considered and
measured one to a seemingly specific type of threat. Flights weren\'t
cancelled as far as I know, apart from cancellations due to capacity
problems caused by slowing things down.

---
