---
title: '28 June 2002'
slug: 28-june-2002
date: 2002-06-28T15:58:01+08:00
draft: false
---

**[GNOME](http://www.gnome.org/)**

The 2.0 release has come and gone. It managed to take down widget (which
serves www.gnome.org, news.gnome.org and bugzilla.gnome.org). Not being
able to access my bugs was a bit of a pain.

The new release looks very nice, and [GTK 2.0](http://www.gtk.org/) is a
joy to program. I still need to finish off [PyGTK
2.0](http://www.daa.com.au/~james/pygtk/) though. The articles from
Dennis E. Powell and Nick Petreley about GNOME 2.0 have been very
surprising. DEP\'s article was very encouraging and Nick\'s one almost
promoted GNOME `:)`.

**LibEgg**

I haven\'t done much work on the menu merge code, but have set up
`gtk-doc` to build reference documentation. I configured it to use the
new XML support (so gtk-doc generates XML, and xsltproc is used to
transform to HTML). Seems to work very nicely.

I also had a small play with conversion to PDF with the
[xmlto](http://cyberelk.net/tim/xmlto/) script, which uses the
PassiveTeX FO processor. There were only a few minor issues making the
conversion difficult. The first was that xmlto wasn\'t performing
XInclude processing. This was fairly easy to fix (I sent a suggestion to
the author to turn this xsltproc option on).

The more serious one was that passivetex didn\'t seem to support
prortional table column widths, which are used in the gtk-doc output.
This shouldn\'t be too big a deal, as I could correct this with a
stylesheet customisation layer. Lastly, the `<synopsis>` elements were
not being rendered correctly, but I think this was an issue with the
(old) version of the XSL stylesheets I was using.

**[Bugzilla](http://www.bugzilla.org)**

I did a [mockup](http://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=154782) of
a \"show/hide advanced options\" button for the query form in bugzilla
(see the second attachment). It is just some simple javascript that uses
a cookie to persist its state. In the simple mode, it just shows the
summary search field and the product/component/version/milestone lists.
While the new query page layout is a lot better, I know a number of
people who are simply put off by the number of available query options
(even though they only need use the first few in the new layout). By
allowing people to hide the majority of the options, hopefully this
complaint will go away.
