---
title: 'Allocated Seating at Greater Union'
slug: allocated-seating
date: 2007-12-17T14:48:42+09:00
---

On the weekend, I had my first encounter with allocated seating at the
Greater Union Innaloo cinemas.

As usual, we\'d bought tickets separately. It wasn\'t until going in to
the actual cinema that a staff member said that we were expected to sit
in seats scattered around the cinema (one of which was on the very
edge).

As the cinema wasn\'t completely full, we did the only sensible thing:
ignore the allocations and pick some seats next to each other. Looking
around the cinema, it looked like a number of other people were ignoring
the allocations (the seat I\'d been allocated was taken by someone else
in a group of about 5 people).

As far as I can understand, the reason for introducing this was to make
the internet booking more compelling by letting you pick your seat. I
guess they felt the need to do something, since the current system has
never seemed worth it:

-   They charge an extra dollar per ticket for internet sales. This is
    despite the fact that they get the money earlier, and you might not
    even turn up (the tickets are sold on a no returns basis).
-   While there is a special queue for picking up internet sales
    tickets, there often isn\'t anyone staffing it. I\'ve only seen
    people in the queue a few times, and they needed to wait until one
    of the other ticket sellers was free.

Maybe they thought screwing with the majority of their customers\'
experience would make the extra dollar worth it.

I sent a complaint to Greater Union, and in future plan to treat their
seating allocations as a suggestion. It is a shame that so many other
cinemas have been closing down over the years :(

---
### Comments:
#### Ryan - <time datetime="2007-12-18 02:31:55">18 Dec, 2007</time>

I don\'t think it\'s a shame that cinemas are closing down. They charge
you a ton of money to sit you in a room full of smelly noisy strangers.
You watch a movie that you could simply buy at the store or download,
and unlike the movie purchase your cinema ticket is only good for one
viewing. You don\'t get any DVD extras, you don\'t get to watch the show
on your own schedule, you aren\'t allowed to pause for a bathroom break,
and if you miss the words to a crucial scene because somebody was being
noisy you can\'t rewind.

It seems to me like a business model that is begging to fail. Good
riddance to cinemas.

---
#### [James Henstridge](http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh/) - <time datetime="2007-12-18 10:33:09">18 Dec, 2007</time>

Ryan: I haveWhile I\'ve certainly been to occasional films with noisy
strangers, I haven\'t had problems with smelly strangers. While DVDs do
have the benefits you mentioned, I\'d argue that it still doesn\'t equal
a good cinema experience. The size of the screen and the sound certainly
count for something.

Given that DVDs are a good alternative it is a shame to see the cinemas
degrading the experience, since it probably will result in more of them
closing down.

---
#### Lorelei - <time datetime="2007-12-18 16:39:57">18 Dec, 2007</time>

Last night I went to Greater Union Innaloo and had the same experience.
Was told where to sit, not given a choice \*at all\* and promptly
ignored it. We sat where we wanted.

For the sake of the other comments, I believe the cinema is great, I
enjoy going. We download a lot of movies and watch at home - we have a
very decent tv and sound system, but it\'s not the same as munching on
the popcorn in the dark, completely whisked away by the whole theatre. I
tend to be choosy which cinema I go to and what movie I see and when -
taking into account smelly teenagers and kids. Greater Union is the
pits, always has been. We only went there as we had free tickets.
Normally I go to Reading in Belmont - it\'s never packed out, it\'s just
around the corner from my house, and they don\'t bloody allocate your
seating!!

I too will be writing a letter of complaint! I hope everyone who is
dissatisfied does the same!

---
