---
title: 'American Hoax'
slug: american-hoax
date: 2007-01-09T05:48:47+09:00
draft: false
---

One of the books I read over the holidays was [American
Hoax](http://www.americanhoax.com/) by Charles Firth. This book is
apparently what he was working on while the rest of the
[Chaser](http://www.chaser.com.au/) guys were doing [The Chaser\'s War
on Everything](http://www.abc.net.au/tv/chaser/war/).

The book is an exploration of different aspects of U.S. politics from an
outsider\'s perspective. Of course, it is a bit difficult to get a good
view of the different political movements from the outside, so he
creates a number of characters representing different points on the
political spectrum as a way to become part of the various movements.
Each of these characters was given a suitable back story, including
Wikipedia articles for some and websites for others.

The book is definitely worth a read. I am not sure if it has been
released outside of Australia yet, but is available from
[Dymocks](http://www.dymocks.com.au/ProductDetails/ProductDetail.aspx?R=1405037628).

---
### Comments:
#### michael - <time datetime="2007-01-10 05:27:20">3 Jan, 2007</time>

I went to the book webpage to see what possible connection this book
could have regarding anything that I would want to know about Ubuntu. Of
course there is nothing. But the website seemed to be particularly
gleeful about the how stupid Americans are, and appeared to be generally
insulting to Americans.

I suppose that this is to be expected from someone whose country was
formed as an English penal colony. And whose \"king\" has been a
steadfast supporter of our king\'s idiotic international policies.

Anyways, I don\'t read the planet Ubuntu pages to be insulted or made
fun of. If you have so little to post, perhaps you shouldn\'t.

---
#### [James Henstridge](http://blogs.gnome.org/jamesh) - <time datetime="2007-01-10 13:22:45">3 Jan, 2007</time>

Michael: First of all, the Planet Ubuntu page says it is \"a window into
the world, work and lives of Ubuntu developers and contributors.\" Given
that, I am not sure why you\'d expect every entry to be Ubuntu related.
If you are after Ubuntu news, perhaps you could read fridge.ubuntu.com.

As part of the Chaser team, Charles has made fun of most aspects of
Australian politics. I am not sure why you\'d take it personally when he
targets US politics instead.

The book mainly focuses on bizarre aspects of US politics (especially
things that seem bizarre from an Australian viewpoint), and the
differences between how the conservative and progressive movements
appear to work.

---
#### michael - <time datetime="2007-01-10 23:46:23">3 Jan, 2007</time>

James,

I\'m sorry that I did not notice the Planet Ubuntu \"window in the
world\...\" stated purpose. It mostly seemed like a technical discussion
area, with the occasional polictical diatribes.

Not being from Austalia and never hearing of the Chaser team, I didn\'t
know that they are satirical. I guess I\'m a little sensitive to attacks
on Americans based on political events that I have consistently opposed.

US politics == bizarre ;)

---
