---
title: 'In Florida'
slug: in-florida
date: 2007-08-29T12:02:23+08:00
tags: ['Launchpad']
---

This week I am in Florida for a [Launchpad](https://launchpad.net/)
sprint. I was meant to arrive on Sunday night, but I fell asleep in the
boarding lounge and missed the San Francisco → Orlando flight (the
flight out of Perth was an early morning one, and I didn\'t get enough
sleep on the plane). The earliest alternative fligh was the same time
the next day, so I ended up ariving on Monday night.

I can\'t say I was impressed with United\'s customer service though. I
was directed to the customer service centre in the airport and queued up
behind about 10 other people. After a short while, the one staff member
at the desk announced that her shift was over and that her replacements
would not be arriving for another hour. It seems like really bad
management to leave the desk unattended for an hour, particularly when
they knew that there were people waiting.

They had a bunch of check-in computers which were supposed to let you
change your flight details, so I gave one of these a try. 
Unfortunately, the computers directed me to pick up the phone to talk to
a representative, and the representative ended up directing me to talk
to someone at the customer service centre.  After waiting for the next
shift, things got sorted out okay though, which was good.

This was also my first experience with
[SSSS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secondary_Security_Screening_Selection)
screening.  In fact I got to experience it twice: once when checking in
for the flight I missed, and again for the later flight.  On my way back
to Australia, I\'ll have two more flights leaving from US airports so
it\'ll be interesting to see what happens then.

---
### Comments:
#### jtin - <time datetime="2007-08-29 14:03:21">3 Aug, 2007</time>

The nice thing about SSSS, I find, is that you can get through security
faster. Since you\'re not going through the normal security screening
anyway, there\'s no point waiting in line. Go over to the Elite/First
class line and wave your boarding pass at them, pointing out the S\'s
and you get your own personal TSA agent.

---
